I-know-how-she-does-it.md, before:

# I Know How She Does It _by Laura Vanderkam_
_How Successful Women Make the Most of their Time_

## Table of Contents
+ [Introduction](#introduction)
    + [Chapter 1 - The Mosaic Project](#Ch1)
+ **Work**
  + [Chapter 2 - Seek True Balance](#Ch2)
  + [Chapter 3 - Take Charge of Your Time](#Ch3)
  + [Chapter 4 - Make Success Possible](#Ch4)
+ **Home**
  + [Chapter 5 - Be There](#Ch5)
  + [Chapter 6 - Make Life Easier](#Ch6)
+ **Self**
  + [Chapter 7 - Nurture Yourself](#Ch7)
  + [Chapter 8 - Savor Space](#Ch8)
  + [Chapter 9 - Master the Tiles](#Ch9)

## Introduction
> This book is about how real people have created full lives.

The objective of this book is to show examples of how real people can lead _good, full lives_ with the 168 hours available to each of us (through time logs) every week and to study these in order to draw some lessons from these examples.

_Note: The book is dotted with a large number of detailed time logs throughout. They're pretty interesting (and will not be reproduced in these notes) so I'd recommend getting your hands on a copy to flick through them._

<a name="Ch1"/>
## Chapter 1 - The Mosaic Project
> There are 168 hours in a week. If you work 50 and sleep 8 per night (56 hours per week in total), that **leaves you 62 hours** for other things. If you work 60 hours and sleep 8 hours per night, that **leaves 52 hours for other things**.


This chapter goes into detail about the setup of the study (called the Mosaic Project), data collection, assumptions and why certain metrics were chosen. It also discusses where the data falls down, particularly in terms of not being a fully representative sample of high-earning women with children. 

+ The Mosaic Project studies the time logs of **143 women** who:
  + Earn more than $100,000 USD a year
  + Have 1 or more underage child living at home
+ **Time logs > surveys** because simply _asking_ people how they spend their time produces _unreliable answers_
+ Author found hour blocks were too long as they didn't provide enough detail in the logs but 15 minute intervals (or less) discouraged people from filling them in
  + **30 minute intervals was the sweet spot for time log entries**

+ It's all about perspective and your attitude
+ Time studies show people seldom work more than 60 hours _every_ week, even if they say they do
  
There will be crashed rushed times with no sleep alongside time spent [doing what you love](http://www.dwyl.io). The key is to **look at your time log (the mosaic) as a whole, not just at the individual time slots (tiles)**.

# Work
<a name="Ch2"/>
## Chapter 2 - Seek True Balance
+ Women who took part in the project put in an average of **44 hours of work per week**, with the majority under 50 hours per week and no one topping 70 hours (the person who logged 70 hours slept 48 hours too)
  + A good number of the sample were accountants in 'busy season' so hours would be lower in off-season

> Women massively limit their earning potential when they choose not to consider "big" jobs that would require a few extra hours of work on the margins [45 hours instead of 35].

There is markedly a **point of diminishing returns** for _everyone_ and everyone's point is slightly different.
+ Peak working days were Wednesdays with an average of 9 hours worked
+ It's **better to plan in your breaks**  - if people didn't take _intentional_ breaks during the day, there came a time that they started taking _unintentional_ ones by remembering little errands they want to run for example

**Tips for finding balance/time**
+ If your office requires you to work late, consider coming in later or taking longer breaks throughout the day
+ Study your schedule and **drop one hour-long meeting you don't actually need to be at**
+ **Revisit your to-do list and hour before your leaving time** - if you _couldn't_ work past your leaving time, what would you drop?
+ When you find yourself with an **unexpected couple of hours** in your day, **think about how you fill it** - don't just mindlessly do the laundry (you can do that when your brain is too tired or switched off), use it to write that story you've been meaning to write for months for example

> But it's also okay to enjoy what you do for a living and _want to do more of it_. 

It's okay to be excited about being **in a season of life that's about getting to do more work**. There will be seasons in your life where you do less. And that's what a balanced _life_ is all about.



<a name="Ch3"/>
## Chapter 3 - Take Charge of Your Time

<a name="Ch4"/>
## Chapter 4 - Make Success Possible

# Home
<a name="Ch5"/> 
## Chapter 5 - Be There
+ An unexpected outcome of keeping a time log was that a lot of the women found out they also spent the equivalent of a full time job's worth of time with their family
+ _Noted that being **around** family is not the same as being **with** them_

### "10 Secrets of Happier Parenting"
_Note: Some of these are very applicable to home life in general - I didn't read the ones that were very specific to children in detail_

1. **Think through your weekday evenings**
  > Planning a little bit means we're not just going straight from work to staring at the TV to bed.    
  
  + If you have a big block of time with family (3-5 hours say), **plan for it, even if it involves a mealtime** otherwise you end up frittering the time away with household tasks or TV or checking email absentmindedly _(you would plan for this time if it was work time remember)_
  + p. 129 includes some ideas for what to do with your kids after dinner
+ **Think through your mornings**
  + Get up 30 minutes before anyone else in the house for 'me time'
  + **Don't just make your mornings about getting out the door**, try to spend at least an hour of quality time with spouse/kids/yourself; there will eventually come a moment when you have to make a move to get dressed and out the door but it _doesn't have to be the focus of your entire pre-work morning_
+ **Play**
  > Most of us could stand to increase the fun in our lives. [...] Yes, you need [to buy] garbage bags. But you can fit that around the playing rather than the other way around.
  
+ **Share a family meal (not necessarily dinner)**
+ **Let the kids know what you do all day**
  + You enjoy seeing where your kids spend their days, so they'll also enjoy seeing how you spend yours - let them visit you for an hour at the office [it'll make your job more real for them too]
+ **Chaperon kid excursions**
+ **Go one-on-one when you can**
  + Spend some time alone with each of your kids (going on 'dates' or joining an activity like a book club or climbing club which is just the two of you)
  + If you have more than one kid and no partner/childcare possibilities for the other one, consider picking one up from school a little earlier and spending an hour before picking the other one up
+ **Exercise together** ("it's a well know mood booster")
+ **Plan adventures** [together]
  + Make a **"List of 100 Dreams"** or an **"Annual Family Fun List"** as a family where each family member contributes some items
+ **Give yourself credit**
  + Understand that as a parent you will always be tired so you might as well be tired watching your kids play at the beach than slumped on the sofa listening to them whine and bicker.
  
### "How to Nurture your Romantic Life"
+ Spending adults-only time with husbands and partners is **essential**
+ Remember **date night doesn't have to be at night**

### "Go All In"
1. **Seize the opportunities that come your way** even when life feels insane
  + No way you're too busy to give your partner a real hug and kiss before you leave the house
  + Rather than rushing out, make a conscious decision to spend 5 minutes playing with your kids, making silly faces etc before you leave
2. **Savour the moments** when they appear
> Life is stressful and life is wonderful. There is no contradiction here. These facts exist side by side. We simply need to learn to see them as they are.

  + "Observation breeds mindfulness" which is why tracking your time really helps you notice the small things

<a name="Ch6"/>
## Chapter 6 - Make Life Easier
+ Opens with really refreshing take on time (not one of someone haggard from never having time to do anything) from Lynda Bascelli, who's the busy medical director for a center for the homeless with 2 kids - it's **all about attitude**:

> Finally, "we let go of a lot of stuff". Her seven year old goes to school in "whatever she chooses to put on". [...]   
It also stems from her work. **The patients she sees have problems that make freaking out over household logistics seem stupid.**

+ The average woman in the study spent around _10 hours a week on housework_, but it ranged from 2 hours to over 25 hours, taking up entire days!
+ **Recognize that much of what fills our time is a choice**

> If you make a habit of doing laundry daily, you'll end up doing laundry daily whether it really needs to be done or not. [...]    
And so, the **time logs that showed admirable organization** - morning cleaning rituals, weekend meal planning - were also the logs with the **highest total number of housrs spent on household tasks**

#### Some suggestions to "make life easier":
+ If you're going to outsource cleaning tasks, make sure you outsource frequent tasks like laundry, dishes and ironing which take up most time
+ A **good way to frame helping with housework for kids** is to explain the money you save in not hiring outside help for those chores goes towards other family priorities like your adventures together
+ You can get most household items (especially recurring ones) delivered
+ Figure out a small list of healthy, quick dinners and then keep staples around to make them (no meal planning required)
+ Make chores fun
  + Score quality time with your kids whilst running errands
  + Make a shopping trip into a scavenger hunt where the aim is to find things as quickly as possible
+ **Most importantly, learn to let go**
  + If you're bothered by the 3 dishes in the sink that need washing, that half hour you'd set aside for reading is chopped up and disappears
  + If someone takes something off your plate and give you back that time, let go of it having to be done _your_ way
  
_Note: There was also a portion of this chapter called "The Childcare Dilemma" which I didn't read._

## Self
<a name="Ch7"/>
### Chapter 7 - Nurture Yourself
> Self-care is the secret ingredient.

Examining the time logs showed that **sleep, exercise** (discussed in _this_ chapter) and **leisure time** (discussed in the _next_ one) **don't need to fall prey to life getting in the way**.

### Sleep
+ 90% of the women in the study go _at least_ 7-9 hours of sleep a day on average
  + _No one_ in the sample slept less than an average of 6 hours a day
+ Statistically though, people who worked more hours tended to sleep less hours 
+ **People tend to _say_ they get less sleep than they do** because:
  + When primed to think about sleep, they tend to remember the _bad nights_ first
  + They tend not to count non-nocturnal sleep in their totals
  
> We all want _me_ time and the **key to getting enough sleep is making sure you do things you want to do at times that don't require you to burn the midnight all**.

### Exercise
> If people don't exercise it's because _they don't want to exercise_.  

+ If you create your time budget for the week - remember there are 168 hours - you'll often find the time is there _if you want to find it_, but **you may have other priorities** and you just have to deal with that
+ Time logs show:
  + Average for time logs was 3.3 hours a week
  + _Positive_ correlation between number of kids and exercise (possibly because of more activities with kids?)

#### Making Time for Exercise
**Remember that you don't have to exercise _every single day_**. So pick a time that will work for you twice a week and do that for example.

1. "**Functional fitness**" - doubling up exercise with getting something else done, e.g. cycling to work, family jog in the park with your kid in the stroller 
+ **Get your workouts in early in the morning** - time logs showed this group preferred around 5am 
  + "morning is a great time for exercise because we tend to have more willpower then and you're less likely to be interrupted"
  + Getting up twenty minutes earlier can be enough, or **work out in what "would usually be kitchen puttering time"**

> One woman [...] kept a log for me 3 weeks before she ran the Boston Marathon. [...]    
All told **she devoted just over ten hours to physical activity. The average American watches ten hours of TV in about three days**.
  
<a name="Ch8"/>
### Chapter 8 - Savor Space
Everyone in the Mosaic project had downtime, either reading (3.9 hours per week on average - 33mins per day), watching TV (4.4 hours per week on averageor some other leisure activity.  
_Note: The logs were mostly collected during the Winter Olympics so the average of 4.4 hours of TV watched per week may be overstating things._

> Did these things happen as much as people hoped? Probably not. **Nor was everyone mentally present during her downtime**.

+ Logs showed that **if we are not prepared for leisure time, we fritter it away** with laundry, mindlessly checking social media or snacking
  + **Prepare a list of leisure activities you can quickly pick up and drop in the pockets of time you find**
+ **Time is elastic** and expands to what you need it to - if you have an emergency you need to deal with, you deal with it. But if at the beginning of the week you'd tried to set those 5 hours it took to deal with it aside for reading, you would probably have thought you couldn't

**How to find time in your day for leisure activities:**
+ Build them into working hours - you already check social media so better to acknowledge that you're taking a small block of leisure time and **consciously decide if Pinterest is where you want to be spending it**
+ **Take a day off** - there will _always_ be demands on your time, so consciously take a day or part of a day to carry out your leisure activities [unencumbered by the guilt that 'you should be working']
+ **Embrace your nights** - for me personally ([@iteles](http://www.github.com/iteles)), this means that if I know I have dinner at 20h00 and I want to be asleep by 22h30 for example, I could work for 1 hour and do something fun or relaxing for an hour - I just need to plan it in so I don't end up swanning around
+ **Turn travel into 'me time'**
+ **Sign up to some activities for yourself** - if they're scheduled in you have to do them!
+ **Think through your weekends** - try planning your weekend on a week night (say Wednesday) so that you don't waste weekend time wondering what to do (the author recommends 3-5 fun activities per weekend, starting on a Friday night)

**Learn how to switch off** to give yourself a break.
+ **Create transition rituals** between work and play (read the paper, go for a walk around your block)
+ Don't tell your partner _Everything_ about your day at dinner - that will just bring work firmly back into your brain
+ "Give yourself designated worry time" - if you give yourself a specific time of the week to worry about certain things, then they don't need to take up your headspace all week long

**If there's something you truly want to do, you'll make time for it - you'll just end up foregoing the things you probably don't find as interesting or useful (e.g. catching up on TV in favour of learning photography).**





<a name="Ch9"/>
### Chapter 9 - Master the Tiles

Commit message:

Adds note on why I chose to read this book, fixes https://github.com/iteles/Book-notes/issues/2

I-know-how-she-does-it.md, after:

# I Know How She Does It _by Laura Vanderkam_
#### How Successful Women Make the Most of their Time

Note: This book focuses on successful women _with children_ but seeing as this is traditionally the group of people that are seen to be most time-starved, I suspected there would be good tips applicable to anyone.    
This turned out to be true and I hope these notes sum these up adequately.


I was drawn to this book particularly because of the time logs that are peppered throughout and I would recommend it to anyone with a similar interest in how others organise their time.    

## Table of Contents
+ [Introduction](#introduction)
    + [Chapter 1 - The Mosaic Project](#Ch1)
+ **Work**
  + [Chapter 2 - Seek True Balance](#Ch2)
  + [Chapter 3 - Take Charge of Your Time](#Ch3)
  + [Chapter 4 - Make Success Possible](#Ch4)
+ **Home**
  + [Chapter 5 - Be There](#Ch5)
  + [Chapter 6 - Make Life Easier](#Ch6)
+ **Self**
  + [Chapter 7 - Nurture Yourself](#Ch7)
  + [Chapter 8 - Savor Space](#Ch8)
  + [Chapter 9 - Master the Tiles](#Ch9)

## Introduction
> This book is about how real people have created full lives.

The objective of this book is to show examples of how real people can lead _good, full lives_ with the 168 hours available to each of us (through time logs) every week and to study these in order to draw some lessons from these examples.

_Note: The book is dotted with a large number of detailed time logs throughout. They're pretty interesting (and will not be reproduced in these notes) so I'd recommend getting your hands on a copy to flick through them._

<a name="Ch1"/>
## Chapter 1 - The Mosaic Project
> There are 168 hours in a week. If you work 50 and sleep 8 per night (56 hours per week in total), that **leaves you 62 hours** for other things. If you work 60 hours and sleep 8 hours per night, that **leaves 52 hours for other things**.


This chapter goes into detail about the setup of the study (called the Mosaic Project), data collection, assumptions and why certain metrics were chosen. It also discusses where the data falls down, particularly in terms of not being a fully representative sample of high-earning women with children. 

+ The Mosaic Project studies the time logs of **143 women** who:
  + Earn more than $100,000 USD a year
  + Have 1 or more underage child living at home
+ **Time logs > surveys** because simply _asking_ people how they spend their time produces _unreliable answers_
+ Author found hour blocks were too long as they didn't provide enough detail in the logs but 15 minute intervals (or less) discouraged people from filling them in
  + **30 minute intervals was the sweet spot for time log entries**

+ It's all about perspective and your attitude
+ Time studies show people seldom work more than 60 hours _every_ week, even if they say they do
  
There will be crashed rushed times with no sleep alongside time spent [doing what you love](http://www.dwyl.io). The key is to **look at your time log (the mosaic) as a whole, not just at the individual time slots (tiles)**.

# Work
<a name="Ch2"/>
## Chapter 2 - Seek True Balance
+ Women who took part in the project put in an average of **44 hours of work per week**, with the majority under 50 hours per week and no one topping 70 hours (the person who logged 70 hours slept 48 hours too)
  + A good number of the sample were accountants in 'busy season' so hours would be lower in off-season

> Women massively limit their earning potential when they choose not to consider "big" jobs that would require a few extra hours of work on the margins [45 hours instead of 35].

There is markedly a **point of diminishing returns** for _everyone_ and everyone's point is slightly different.
+ Peak working days were Wednesdays with an average of 9 hours worked
+ It's **better to plan in your breaks**  - if people didn't take _intentional_ breaks during the day, there came a time that they started taking _unintentional_ ones by remembering little errands they want to run for example

**Tips for finding balance/time**
+ If your office requires you to work late, consider coming in later or taking longer breaks throughout the day
+ Study your schedule and **drop one hour-long meeting you don't actually need to be at**
+ **Revisit your to-do list and hour before your leaving time** - if you _couldn't_ work past your leaving time, what would you drop?
+ When you find yourself with an **unexpected couple of hours** in your day, **think about how you fill it** - don't just mindlessly do the laundry (you can do that when your brain is too tired or switched off), use it to write that story you've been meaning to write for months for example

> But it's also okay to enjoy what you do for a living and _want to do more of it_. 

It's okay to be excited about being **in a season of life that's about getting to do more work**. There will be seasons in your life where you do less. And that's what a balanced _life_ is all about.



<a name="Ch3"/>
## Chapter 3 - Take Charge of Your Time

<a name="Ch4"/>
## Chapter 4 - Make Success Possible

# Home
<a name="Ch5"/> 
## Chapter 5 - Be There
+ An unexpected outcome of keeping a time log was that a lot of the women found out they also spent the equivalent of a full time job's worth of time with their family
+ _Noted that being **around** family is not the same as being **with** them_

### "10 Secrets of Happier Parenting"
_Note: Some of these are very applicable to home life in general - I didn't read the ones that were very specific to children in detail_

1. **Think through your weekday evenings**
  > Planning a little bit means we're not just going straight from work to staring at the TV to bed.    
  
  + If you have a big block of time with family (3-5 hours say), **plan for it, even if it involves a mealtime** otherwise you end up frittering the time away with household tasks or TV or checking email absentmindedly _(you would plan for this time if it was work time remember)_
  + p. 129 includes some ideas for what to do with your kids after dinner
+ **Think through your mornings**
  + Get up 30 minutes before anyone else in the house for 'me time'
  + **Don't just make your mornings about getting out the door**, try to spend at least an hour of quality time with spouse/kids/yourself; there will eventually come a moment when you have to make a move to get dressed and out the door but it _doesn't have to be the focus of your entire pre-work morning_
+ **Play**
  > Most of us could stand to increase the fun in our lives. [...] Yes, you need [to buy] garbage bags. But you can fit that around the playing rather than the other way around.
  
+ **Share a family meal (not necessarily dinner)**
+ **Let the kids know what you do all day**
  + You enjoy seeing where your kids spend their days, so they'll also enjoy seeing how you spend yours - let them visit you for an hour at the office [it'll make your job more real for them too]
+ **Chaperon kid excursions**
+ **Go one-on-one when you can**
  + Spend some time alone with each of your kids (going on 'dates' or joining an activity like a book club or climbing club which is just the two of you)
  + If you have more than one kid and no partner/childcare possibilities for the other one, consider picking one up from school a little earlier and spending an hour before picking the other one up
+ **Exercise together** ("it's a well know mood booster")
+ **Plan adventures** [together]
  + Make a **"List of 100 Dreams"** or an **"Annual Family Fun List"** as a family where each family member contributes some items
+ **Give yourself credit**
  + Understand that as a parent you will always be tired so you might as well be tired watching your kids play at the beach than slumped on the sofa listening to them whine and bicker.
  
### "How to Nurture your Romantic Life"
+ Spending adults-only time with husbands and partners is **essential**
+ Remember **date night doesn't have to be at night**

### "Go All In"
1. **Seize the opportunities that come your way** even when life feels insane
  + No way you're too busy to give your partner a real hug and kiss before you leave the house
  + Rather than rushing out, make a conscious decision to spend 5 minutes playing with your kids, making silly faces etc before you leave
2. **Savour the moments** when they appear
> Life is stressful and life is wonderful. There is no contradiction here. These facts exist side by side. We simply need to learn to see them as they are.

  + "Observation breeds mindfulness" which is why tracking your time really helps you notice the small things

<a name="Ch6"/>
## Chapter 6 - Make Life Easier
+ Opens with really refreshing take on time (not one of someone haggard from never having time to do anything) from Lynda Bascelli, who's the busy medical director for a center for the homeless with 2 kids - it's **all about attitude**:

> Finally, "we let go of a lot of stuff". Her seven year old goes to school in "whatever she chooses to put on". [...]   
It also stems from her work. **The patients she sees have problems that make freaking out over household logistics seem stupid.**

+ The average woman in the study spent around _10 hours a week on housework_, but it ranged from 2 hours to over 25 hours, taking up entire days!
+ **Recognize that much of what fills our time is a choice**

> If you make a habit of doing laundry daily, you'll end up doing laundry daily whether it really needs to be done or not. [...]    
And so, the **time logs that showed admirable organization** - morning cleaning rituals, weekend meal planning - were also the logs with the **highest total number of housrs spent on household tasks**

#### Some suggestions to "make life easier":
+ If you're going to outsource cleaning tasks, make sure you outsource frequent tasks like laundry, dishes and ironing which take up most time
+ A **good way to frame helping with housework for kids** is to explain the money you save in not hiring outside help for those chores goes towards other family priorities like your adventures together
+ You can get most household items (especially recurring ones) delivered
+ Figure out a small list of healthy, quick dinners and then keep staples around to make them (no meal planning required)
+ Make chores fun
  + Score quality time with your kids whilst running errands
  + Make a shopping trip into a scavenger hunt where the aim is to find things as quickly as possible
+ **Most importantly, learn to let go**
  + If you're bothered by the 3 dishes in the sink that need washing, that half hour you'd set aside for reading is chopped up and disappears
  + If someone takes something off your plate and give you back that time, let go of it having to be done _your_ way
  
_Note: There was also a portion of this chapter called "The Childcare Dilemma" which I didn't read._

## Self
<a name="Ch7"/>
### Chapter 7 - Nurture Yourself
> Self-care is the secret ingredient.

Examining the time logs showed that **sleep, exercise** (discussed in _this_ chapter) and **leisure time** (discussed in the _next_ one) **don't need to fall prey to life getting in the way**.

### Sleep
+ 90% of the women in the study go _at least_ 7-9 hours of sleep a day on average
  + _No one_ in the sample slept less than an average of 6 hours a day
+ Statistically though, people who worked more hours tended to sleep less hours 
+ **People tend to _say_ they get less sleep than they do** because:
  + When primed to think about sleep, they tend to remember the _bad nights_ first
  + They tend not to count non-nocturnal sleep in their totals
  
> We all want _me_ time and the **key to getting enough sleep is making sure you do things you want to do at times that don't require you to burn the midnight all**.

### Exercise
> If people don't exercise it's because _they don't want to exercise_.  

+ If you create your time budget for the week - remember there are 168 hours - you'll often find the time is there _if you want to find it_, but **you may have other priorities** and you just have to deal with that
+ Time logs show:
  + Average for time logs was 3.3 hours a week
  + _Positive_ correlation between number of kids and exercise (possibly because of more activities with kids?)

#### Making Time for Exercise
**Remember that you don't have to exercise _every single day_**. So pick a time that will work for you twice a week and do that for example.

1. "**Functional fitness**" - doubling up exercise with getting something else done, e.g. cycling to work, family jog in the park with your kid in the stroller 
+ **Get your workouts in early in the morning** - time logs showed this group preferred around 5am 
  + "morning is a great time for exercise because we tend to have more willpower then and you're less likely to be interrupted"
  + Getting up twenty minutes earlier can be enough, or **work out in what "would usually be kitchen puttering time"**

> One woman [...] kept a log for me 3 weeks before she ran the Boston Marathon. [...]    
All told **she devoted just over ten hours to physical activity. The average American watches ten hours of TV in about three days**.
  
<a name="Ch8"/>
### Chapter 8 - Savor Space
Everyone in the Mosaic project had downtime, either reading (3.9 hours per week on average - 33mins per day), watching TV (4.4 hours per week on averageor some other leisure activity.  
_Note: The logs were mostly collected during the Winter Olympics so the average of 4.4 hours of TV watched per week may be overstating things._

> Did these things happen as much as people hoped? Probably not. **Nor was everyone mentally present during her downtime**.

+ Logs showed that **if we are not prepared for leisure time, we fritter it away** with laundry, mindlessly checking social media or snacking
  + **Prepare a list of leisure activities you can quickly pick up and drop in the pockets of time you find**
+ **Time is elastic** and expands to what you need it to - if you have an emergency you need to deal with, you deal with it. But if at the beginning of the week you'd tried to set those 5 hours it took to deal with it aside for reading, you would probably have thought you couldn't

**How to find time in your day for leisure activities:**
+ Build them into working hours - you already check social media so better to acknowledge that you're taking a small block of leisure time and **consciously decide if Pinterest is where you want to be spending it**
+ **Take a day off** - there will _always_ be demands on your time, so consciously take a day or part of a day to carry out your leisure activities [unencumbered by the guilt that 'you should be working']
+ **Embrace your nights** - for me personally ([@iteles](http://www.github.com/iteles)), this means that if I know I have dinner at 20h00 and I want to be asleep by 22h30 for example, I could work for 1 hour and do something fun or relaxing for an hour - I just need to plan it in so I don't end up swanning around
+ **Turn travel into 'me time'**
+ **Sign up to some activities for yourself** - if they're scheduled in you have to do them!
+ **Think through your weekends** - try planning your weekend on a week night (say Wednesday) so that you don't waste weekend time wondering what to do (the author recommends 3-5 fun activities per weekend, starting on a Friday night)

**Learn how to switch off** to give yourself a break.
+ **Create transition rituals** between work and play (read the paper, go for a walk around your block)
+ Don't tell your partner _Everything_ about your day at dinner - that will just bring work firmly back into your brain
+ "Give yourself designated worry time" - if you give yourself a specific time of the week to worry about certain things, then they don't need to take up your headspace all week long

**If there's something you truly want to do, you'll make time for it - you'll just end up foregoing the things you probably don't find as interesting or useful (e.g. catching up on TV in favour of learning photography).**





<a name="Ch9"/>
### Chapter 9 - Master the Tiles
